all right
um my presentation is about how to plan
and design for web accessibility
um let's see my goals my goals today uh
to
help you gain a clear understanding of
what website accessibility means
learn about the different levels of
website accessibility
how and when do you plan for website
accessibility um
go over website accessibility design
principles and how to apply them
and also just learn about a couple tools
to use to kind of gauge your your kind
of level of accessibility of your site
um we'll go kind of more in detail and
actually demonstrate those when we get
to that point
website accessibility an accessible
website is one that can be used by
by everyone people of all abilities and
disabilities
um when thinking about just thinking
about disabilities we usually think
about you know blindness or individuals
in wheelchairs or hearing impaired those
are kind of like
just kind of standard what people think
but there's but there's more
disabilities
they come in different forms like color
blindness muscle dystrophy or sometimes
a temporary disability
people don't even think about that
someone can have a broken arm or her
hand
and they will just need to navigate
through a website without using the
mouse
and uh that this affects all ranges of
people
um yeah but just
i think we need to remove as many
barriers as possible for them uh so we
can have
the same so they can have the same
access as everybody else
um why accessibility matters it's
socially responsible
um but just being more inclusive for as
many types of people is kind of what
we're trying to do here
and it's great for seo which is
surprising to hear to a lot of my
clients
when i talk about that why is it great
for seo we'll go over some of those
later in the presentation it allows your
organization to reach more people
um and and by doing that increases
revenue um
and that's surprising for some of my
e-commerce clients that don't even think
about
well why is that increased revenue so we
can kind of go over that in this
presentation as well
in some cases it may be uh legally
required to be that
and that's true on some of my nonprofits
and some of my government
organizations that i have worked with in
the past
now we're going to go over kind of the i
guess the boring part of this
presentation i call it um but it's kind
of just kind of setting terminology
a little bit it's kind of uh because you
see a lot of terminology like section
508 and double a and triple a
and i kind of like to kind of set the
bar on that i try to keep this section
short
and kind of brief but it kind of helps
terminology i also want to preface it
i'm not a lawyer so
i'm not giving any legal advice on this
but
i want you to understand that just kind
of where these terminologies come from
what is ada compliance you hear this
term ada compliance
american disabilities act ada from 1990
is a conference of
federal civil rights law prohibiting
discrimination of bias
of a disability title ii of ada applies
to the state and local governments
while title 3 applies to all places of
public accommodation
however both sections require
organizations to remove any barriers to
to this disabled person's ability to
access goods and services
now section 508 um yeah i'm not going to
quiz you on every section of this and we
had section 504
i'm not going to go everything but this
is kind of abbreviated timeline and
version of all the laws have in the past
so we're going to start with section 508
it was amended by the workforce act in
requires federal agencies to develop
procure and maintain the use of
information and communication technology
known as ict
that is accessible to people with
disabilities regardless of whether or
not they work in a federal government
the us
access board established section 508
standards to
implement the law and provide the
requirements for accessibility so it's
kind of
the government's version right now of
accessibility and information technology
a little more here um in 2010 way back
in 2010 the us department justice issued
an advance notice of proposing
rulemaking indicating they would uh
intend to amend the language in title
iii that we talked about a minute ago
of the ada ensure it would also apply to
the website accessibility
the department of justice was planning
on moving forward incorporating the
website accessibility guidelines
we cag or wcag 2.1 which can be found at
this link in 2018
however the current administration has
put that on hold
so for now there's no clear ada
appliance applies to web
web design no regulations no no no
increase but there are increasing
numbers of lawsuits that are coming out
and um one of those was found on this
uh website app lawsuit recap report
and the total number of ada web apps
accessibility file cases reach one
one an hour in 2018 and held around 2019
now
the 2019 kind of drifted down because uh
they're kind of waiting on
the supreme court to decide on a hearing
on the case versus dominoes
however one should not assume that the
absence of the doj regulations and other
guidelines will provide due process
defense claims
website connected to place
accommodations fails to comply with
accessibility requirements under ada
so currently the we cag 2.1 is kind of
the benchmark that they refer all these
companies right now to
as far because there's not like a direct
law that uh guides them
so for my opinion why i'm not i'm not a
lawyer but and the future i believe
title three will be updated with website
accessibility standards and eventually
become
a u.s law and along the way they'll be
guided by decisions in cases like
rollers versus dominoes
that we talked about a second ago i also
believe that the department of justice i
also believe the department of justice
will use the
weak tag 2.1 double a as a standard
benchmark in law
in some countries like for instance in
japan and norway
they already have consequences for not
meeting these guidelines
similar guidelines if you don't comply
in netherlands for example
all government-directed websites need to
comply by 2020
but but like the u.s they're all pushing
for legal requirements
for private businesses to be hold the
same level of accessibility so
us i think is moving in that direction
kind of uh we're going to eventually be
they're going to eventually pass a
regulation that pushes even private
businesses into this kind of
requirements
um this is kind of a visual graph or
representation of kind of the levels you
got five
section 508 that we talked about single
a double a and triple a
and the more astringent as you get into
the double a and single a is closely
represents the section 508 that's curly
law
and you can see on the bottom right if
you can read it it's kind of small but
it
has uh one of those weak 2.0 2.1 kind if
you're wondering what those numbers mean
they kind of release versions every few
years here so you can kind of see when
those coming out are expected at 2.2
coming out 2021.
now now we're getting into it so when we
start planning for uh
when do you start planning for
accessibility um i believe the
discussion needs to start at the
beginning of any web
web design project in this in this
discussion you talk
talk about like with your clients you
need to talk about branding colors
design strategy layout images and even
copy all these factors play a role in
level of accessibility you wish to
achieve
building accessibility build
accessibility right right into your
workflow don't
you know get the stakeholders on board
get them to understand why
it's not just the laws but but the
potential for users and possibly opening
up revenues for these
for organizations and when i say revenue
it doesn't always apply to
you know businesses selling e-commerce
actually i have
uh nonprofit clients that are backed you
know by people with disabilities so they
actually get more donations
so knowing that it can have a wider
spread than just
you know just their bottom line but it
also has people who are advocates for
their organizations
um yeah access accessibility should
never just be an afterthought
from my experience um if you do not
build accessibility in your plan
it could possibly cause twice the work
or money and time
um if you do if you don't build it into
your strategy so you know as these laws
come into law
into law in the future you're gonna have
to go back in and change them
but um it just kind of makes it harder
for everybody to kind of
reprogram their brain to kind of attack
tackle these projects again
especially after you build large website
projects
try to make it part of the just try to
make it part of the conversation uh
every step of the way you know you know
if you're talking about
if it depends if you have a small team
if you have a small team of designers
developers you know it's easy to kind of
talk to the
person who's writing the copy and how
should you plan for images and how
should you plan for page layout
um the bigger the team the harder that
gets but you know make it part of the
conversation all the way
all right um i'm going to go over the
main four principles i think these are
gone and
over other meetings pretty extensively
i'll try to keep it brief but um
i want to make sure that you know it
kind of aligns what i'm going to be
talking about specifically certain
topics of the week
2.1 principles uh perceivable is
principle one
make sure you have text alternatives
provide text alternatives for any
non-text content
make it adaptable a lot of web designers
already know about responsiveness but
also think about how that
works when it's responsive when the
framework is responsive
time based media when it's audio only or
video only provide captions or audio
descriptions
uh distinguishable we'll be getting into
this one more but
because it has to kind of more deal with
design make it easier for users to hear
content including separating background
and foreground this includes color
audio control contrast resizing text and
images and stuff like that operables uh
principle 2 keyboard accessibility make
all function available by the keyboard
seizures don't make things flat flashing
on the screen if you have you know
things flashing
keep it low because people are you know
photo sensitive
but you got to have controls to kind of
help stop that and that's enough time
giving them enough time the user to read
the content stop and pause is kind of
similar to that
navigable provide ways for users to
navigate
find content and determine where they
are principle three understandable
readable make the text content readable
and understandable
input assistance help users avoid
content mistakes like examples like
labels or instructions
error suggestions or error prevention
predictable
make web pages appear and operate in
predictable ways on focus
input consistent navigation consistent
identification compatible
uh just make sure that the system is
robust and compatible
with a lot of user agents like user
agents like web browsers or browser
extensions media players
good news is that frameworks like
wordpress and html5
are compatible and are kind of built for
future and continue in development
but uh but not all plugins are and and
other things like that other developers
you do not have control over
um will and you know frameworks uh like
html5
are great places to start
okay so for this presentation we're
focusing on design and distinguishable
is one of the most important principles
in terms of design for accessibility
visual elements like text icons input
fields and charts need to be easily
perceivable
on the most basic level that means they
need to be clearly stand out from the
background
but it's also important that they can be
easily distinguished from similar
elements around them for example
linked embedded in the pair and the text
paragraph
they need to see things clearly as a
shared among people who rely on their
eyes but the challenge are quite diverse
people with visual impairment might not
be able to see certain colors
the field of view might be blurred or
narrow it's also possible that
the challenge is caused by the
projection of light in the room or
direct sunlight shining in the screen
the visual contrast between the color is
a key factor in making things
perceivable
but color contrast has its limitations
creating robust visual differences
between elements often require a more
holistic approach
and when i'm talking about holistic
approaches it doesn't have to do with
colors it's like things like arrangement
additional labeling spacing you know
like white space
content consistency consistency is a big
factor in accessibility
and help make the content just
distinguish what will all help make the
content distinguishable on the website
all right we're going to go into colors
and contrast for text providing
providing
sufficient contrast between foreground
and background for relevant luminance
the tone of color
whether it's red green blue yellow is
not a key factor
after all adequate contrast is necessary
for people who can't perceive certain
colors or who don't see colors at all
this means visually distinct colors
don't automatically have a high contrast
ratio
sometimes designers ask me what's the
best colors to use it's not always about
the best colors it's about the contrast
ratio of these colors while visually
non-impaired users might be able to
perceive the red and green words on the
on the blue background
for the image on the left others will
have a very hard time differentiating
between the text in the background the
image on the right is how it might look
to somebody who sees grayscale
which you can see is very hard to
distinguish even for me as someone who
can see
okay color uh continue on this color
contrast for text uh to meet these
standards
text should have a color contrast ratio
of 4.5
to 1. this ensures that viewers cannot
who cannot see a full color spectrum are
able to read
the text so this also depends on the
size of the text
text color background will determine the
element if it meets these requirements
to understand kind of contrast ratio one
to one is the lowest contrast ratio
means there's no
there's no difference between the colors
21-1
is kind of like the highest possible
contract contrast ratio kind of like
white text on a black background while
the highest contrast is generally good
higher is not always better i've seen
research indicates that moderate
contrast
somewhere between the extremes is the
best
just using black and white to reach a
higher contrast is not good for all
users
um this is sort of where the this is
sort of where the conversation needs to
come in for branding for projects
i think it can start with branding i've
had hard conversations with bran with
companies on their branding colors
and what that means when translating to
the web um
because if you diagnose a lot of
websites out there for
accessibility you come to find out color
contrast is probably one of the
biggest hurdles to tackle and hardest to
kind of for designers to keep things
they're worried about being pretty and
aesthetically pleasing but there's a lot
of techniques you can use to kind of get
around that
um so moving on from text we're going to
do color contrast for user interface
components uh version 2.1 of web
accessibility guidelines um minimal
contrast is three to one contrast
adjacent colors for all ui components
now we're going to start with a bad
example
uh and this one the borders of the input
fields have insufficient contrast ratio
1.5 to 1. because of that
certain users may have a hard time
finding input fields to enter
um the background color the send message
button also has a low contrast ratio 1.5
to 1. this will make it harder for users
to identify the button
now we'll continue on some more ui
examples uh form a versus form b
form b is kind of like a on the right is
kind of saying hey this is
anesthetically pleasing this is what i
like
form b um a little higher contrast a lot
more accessible
you know borders bolder text bolder
labeling text things like that kind of
make that
make form a much more accessible than
form b and that's kind of like a direct
contrast on the same type of form
now this one this is a there's a lot of
options here one through four but we're
also going to talk about one and four
and kind of the contrast
um the worst the worst option is
obviously number one in terms of
accessibility the best option is number
four you can see here a couple things
are happening in four
there is there is the use of color the
use of icons and error messages to help
the user understand what's going on
option four is a good example of of not
just using color to help their guider so
it's a lot of other things to help use
the
to help the guide the user on this as
performs in general
some forms in general um there can be a
bigger conversation and best practices
making
forms accessible i could have a whole
presentation based on form accessibility
i think right now we're just kind of
going into kind of the visual aspects
um as you can see on here like visual
labeling proper understanding a
proper heading structure in sections
clear warning indicators like you see in
option four
but for this purpose i just want you to
know sometimes
just how color is used when using it in
user interface elements
here's a navigation example navigation a
uses color
to show shop your that's your select on
shop but when you see an option b
it's kind of what a colorblind person
might see in navigation um
you can't tell the difference at all
they have no idea what the selection is
now option c they bolded the for shop
they bolded
the the text and they underlined it and
which that allows for
when you see an option d what a
colorblind person they can see they can
clearly see what is selected in this
navigation example
now this is just these are simple graphs
these are just kind of
express a point um when showing kind of
different types of information or
displaying types of information
labels just don't help when someone's
colorblind or not able to tell the graph
what it is
apples oranges bananas they would have a
hard time distinguishing between that
option b kind of shows hey you can use
lines or dots or some
other type of indicator of what that
information is conveying
um you could get rid of the this is that
now they switch another option b
you could just get rid of the legend
altogether and just put the labels right
on top
um and while lawns is you know if you
put the labels on top make sure it kind
of meets those requirements of the
contrast ratio that we're talking about
the 4.5 to 1 but
you know you get the point with this it
kind of shows hey you can label this
over the top and get rid of the legend
altogether
and this is just kind of a extended
version of what we just saw a second ago
as well
just if you're trying to identify colors
or an
image you know you can put one two three
four over the top and identify with the
legend on the right
this also just helps further reinforce
um you know if someone has difficulty
seeing
include image and media alternatives in
your design for example you might need
visible links to transcript of audio
visible links of to audio described
versions of video
text along with icons and graphical
buttons captions and descriptions for
tables
tables or complex graphs okay so
provide controls for content that starts
automatically that's that's a big one i
always have battled this with clients i
have a lot of clients that want to have
automatic sliders or automatic videos
playing when someone
lands on arrives on a landing page and
if you don't have visible controls to
stop those
it gets really kind of disorienting for
certain users
you can see in this one there are links
for
there are links for closed captioning
there's links for speed control
there's links you know there's links for
transcripts
this video just kind of allows more
control for the user over this
experience with the video now this is an
ugly slider sliders are actually a big
for me has been a big problem with uh
achieving accessibility people love
sliders at the top of their websites or
in the middle sometimes
and they all have the different
challenges and actually there's a lot of
people
who tackle them differently but when
developing a slider or making a slide or
putting on your website just keep some
of these you know
things in mind you know you want to have
controls you want to have navigation
elements you you want ways for them to
stop you don't want it to play
automatically if you have that option
with your slider
so and you want things to happen like if
you have if you roll over with a mouse
just have it stop as well so it's not
just the keyboard but
other ways of interacting with this
media needs to kind of have easy control
okay now image accessibility um a lot of
people talked about this really great uh
you know we had other speakers already
talked extensively about
some of these like a presentation from
uh jerry jones i think it was
went on much more detail than i will
compared on this on this presentation
i'll just kind of give you my take
um you can easily add for example on
this one create an image that helps uh
help make your images more informative
to the user is kind of the underlying
tone of this
as you can see the alt text i have on
the screen aerial view of central park
in new york
you could easily just have the word
central park there you don't even have
to have a
but central park doesn't give any good
indication of what this is about
try to be relevant to the page content
so try to make the alt text town
supportive to the rest of the content on
the site
if you're if your site was about
something about famous city parks
that alt text would work great but if
it's more about open spaces
you might be considering a different alt
text to kind of uh
kind of drive your point home further on
that
and for and i got this question on
length i would recommend the alt text
be more than like 100 characters in
length if you need to go further you can
also add stuff to the description
um but as far as like the alt text
itself you know try to keep it around
100 characters in length
it's also great for seo if you do good
old text
um i'll con two more examples on alt
text like this one
uh ecommerce websites uh credit card
loan use if you just use the word
credit card logos as alt texts they
don't know which ones
um a good alternative to this would be
uh vsan mastercard
accepted so you know just a lot more
descriptive what that means
if they were using a screen reader
uh this doesn't have this happens rarely
in my case i don't usually i'm usually
the graphic artist on the project
um i don't put a lot of oh i've learned
this from accessibility i'm not putting
text
over images but if you do have a case of
that you know type it out in the alt
text
this this example the quick brown fox
jumps over the lazy dog
if the if the text is on the image you
can put it in alt text it is a good
practice
if you do it that way but i just avoid
it all together so
um accessible navigation designers and
developers should consider both
site-wide and page navigation in general
provide multiple ways to reach any page
of the
on the site doing so allows users to
choose whether whatever way of finding
pages and
is easiest for them users with low
vision uh low vision may find using
search
easier than navigating through a large
menu users with cognitive impairments
may prefer a table of contents or a site
map
over clicking through many pages
all right in this presentation in a
presentation earlier by um
adam berkowitz about building accessible
navigation first
for search goes over accessible
navigation in much more detail than i'll
go on this one today
but i would recommend to go back and
listen to that presentation on how to
make the navigation much more accessible
um i just want to give some tips to
consider on kind of my tips on it too as
well
one of my first tips is using
conventional locations for menus such as
across the top or along the left side
don't don't come with some like crazy
hidden menus or
along the right is also weird for people
so kind of like that's why i recommend
the top or the left
providing generous size for clickable
areas generally no smaller than 44 by 44
picks
yeah don't make it real tiny hard to hit
you know
hard to find kind of locate these kind
of uh links on the navigation
providing clear styles for hover or of
the current states also known as like
focus so
when it's on focus uh you know where the
cursor is or you know where
uh when you're tapping the key keys to
navigate the site you know where you're
at
ensuring that many is our keyboard
optical and focus states are never
hidden from the users
same what i said before but just kind of
reassuring don't hide
where they're navigating avoid linking
off site when possible
unless properly marked by labels or aria
labels
using navigation landmarks for screen
readers um
people go back and forth on on this one
a lot of people have different ideas of
how to do this kind of markup but i'll
go over a little bit of some examples
here soon
keyboard accessibility keyboard
accessibility is one of the most
important aspects of web accessibility
many users
with motor disabilities rely on keyboard
to navigate websites in place of a mouse
uh you know i just encourage you to try
to navigate any of your sites or
if you're just with a keyboard just to
encourage you to try it you know use the
tab key to go forward
use shift tab key to kind of go
backwards uh kind of backtrack
keep in mind like we said earlier people
have temporary disabilities that
will have to use a keyboard or you know
or later in life become
disabled and they kind of need help
using the keyboard instead of the mouse
and they kind of prefer it
all right skip skip navigation and
keyboard navigation
skip links are internal pages uh links
which a a
navigation around the current page
rather than navigating completely new
pages
they are mainly used by screen readers
uh for bypassing or skipping over
repetitive page content
um when i when i heard about them first
i had no idea where they were or how to
even
how to figure them out so it took some
time for me to kind of figure out how to
use proper skip link navigation
um skip links can conclude like you know
like you see an example skip over
primary navigation but you can also have
skip
to main to main content skip to sidebar
skip to footer
i would keep it limited i wouldn't do
like 50 of them or something like that
but i would keep it
to kind of to the main section of the
content you want people to have access
to
focus indicators can you tell and this
one the questions can you tell where the
element is in focus
when they're using their keyboard does
the element stop moving when it's in
focus
almost include text links buttons forms
navigations and sliders
so all these elements you want to kind
of have a way that
hey this is what you're focused on
okay we're going to go the demo
demonstration part of my project here
let me see switch over to i'm not
picking on anybody when i'm
demonstrating websites i'm just trying
to kind of
kind of show you kind of how things work
um
now when you hit the tab key on i'm
gonna use unilever as kind of example
they're a big
company so we can kind of see they say
see the first thing you see is skip to
content
now a user could hit enter uh on this
and it will skip right down to the main
part of the content
and as you continue to hit tab um it's
hard to tell but it went up to their
facebook it went up to the very top of
their uh
the main bar at the top then twitter
and then you know through all their
social icons and then it's gonna it
moves their logo which means their main
website
you know kind of home about
brands you kind of see as it's
indicating you can see
the square is moving along with me and i
can choose that
now if i was consulting for unilever
they have a great accessible website i
think it's
it's a good example of it but i also
wish they had more skipped links i wish
they had a way to kind of
uh you know skip to their navigation
instead of going through that top
very top bar but that's just you know
that's coming to my preference
and uh and you just need to have more
users try the website out
and kind of give you feedback to kind of
make those corrections
now landmark accessibility uh what are
website landmarks they help screen
readers identify sections the website
identifies areas like navigation
main content areas sidebars search bar
footer and copyright
um on unilever they didn't really have
those they have those sections
identified and i can show you that in a
minute as well but
i think that you use these landmarks or
use aria labels
to help identify if html is falling
short for you
it's a good idea to have labels
everywhere if possible but know that
html5
has a lot of this structure built in so
and
not all screen readers use relabel as
its main source of information but it's
definitely still good
to kind of consider adding these labels
in
heading accessibility just think of each
page as an outline for a paper starting
with h1 as a title at the top of the
page then continue h2 h3h4 use headings
to convey meaning and structure
um when i'm working with copywriters
i definitely you know i i try to i try
to guide this as much as possible when
they're when i'm working with them
trying to help me
kind of convey meaning to everything
including images i bring them into the
conversation across the board
all right so think about now that you
have the copy and you've got the images
going think about the design and the
page structure this can help someone
when navigating the website you can see
here
you know proper white space makes a
relationship between the content more
apparent style headings to group content
reduce clutter and make it easier to
scan and understand the
example on the left just kind of has the
main heading and the subheading kind of
grouped together the image is kind of
thrown in there you don't know what the
association is with
the example on the right the main
heading and the image
are grouped together and then the
subheadings are kind of in their own
area
and the structure just makes a lot more
sense
notes on reading when reading on the
screen users benefit from having text
at a lower reading level while it's not
required for accessibility it's the best
to write
at a lower reading level is appropriate
for your content doing so benefits
people with cognitive impairments people
who do not speak english
as the first language and people who who
may be uh distracted while reading
some of the best practices for
readability include writing at a high
school grade level
where possible and appropriate limit
paragraphs to around 80 words
if possible avoid jargon and difficult
language when possible
one of the tips i have is use the
authoring tool such as hemingway editor
it's a it's a decent tool you can get in
there and kind of see what your
readability is
um i wouldn't overthink this i know it
really depends on the content of the
website and you know if you have a very
scientific website
you have to write at a certain level but
if you don't need to make it over
complicated don't
um link and button accessibility okay so
we're gonna the example on the on the
left shows no information you see this
on a lot of websites learn more
and in some cases you can't help it like
on a blog roll you see learn more a lot
but it doesn't provide enough
information for screen
readers or people with uh visual
impairments kind of what that means
um compared to the button on the right
it says see all events you know directly
where that's going to go even without
context from a page here you know it's
going to go see all i'll see all the
events
also the button on the left says learn
more in all caps this is something
designers never think about we put we
hey we think that looks pretty you know
make sure you put learn more
all caps i hedge against that
you could you know do like it says see
all events you know make the
the capital case like that um it helps
differentiate the letters it makes a
little easier to read
okay um
let's see here so yeah let's continue on
and last thing kind of with uh button
accessibility is or link accessibility
for this case
the left one says has no information as
well for information on the device
independence click here
click here you see a lot people put that
but click where is kind of what someone
could ask
so more meaningful version would read
more about device independence and they
know that it's about
device independence is what they're
clicking on and they know where it's
going to be going
that's true with links going off the
site you know you wanna you wanna
address them hey this is leaving the
site
it's a kind of discombobulating to kind
of just also abruptly leave a site i've
seen
uh companies add links that go off their
web page
in their main navigation and that's even
confusing for me and i
i know what happened so keep that in
mind keep in mind of the user when
you're when you're
when you're developing links for a site
now tools to help check your ada
compliance um
i go to a couple of these these are just
what worked for me and my workflow um
the bet the best thing to do is actually
have users use it
have people with disabilities use your
website that's the best way to check for
it
but these are just kind of quick checks
when i'm laying out a page or tackling a
page
okay what did i miss what am i not
thinking about
and and especially if i start adding
more complicated things in there like
plugins or
event things or things like that i use
these kind of help me check or keep
myself in check
um total ally this is a this is a live
check so i broke these up in kind of
live checkers that kind of
float over the top of your screen and
help you live check while you're making
edits
and there's other ones you can actually
submit a link um this is another live
check called code sniffer
um this one's really strenuous it's uh
it's kind of confusing to use or it's
not confusing to use it just
man it really finds some crazy things on
your site so
you'll be like dang i need to learn how
to program better once you start using
this code sniffer
um and there's also the w3c validator
this is a
this is a well-known one but a lot of
people have used it in the past this is
where you actually have to submit
your kind of link to it it checks it and
spits back a report
um wav also has online and plus i think
there's a chrome plugin
i put links here on this presentation
you can go check those out
these are great tools as well let's
actually
demonstrate one of these while i'm here
let's do
total total accessibility or i think
they meant to say totally but
um let's refresh their page
we'll go to the unilever one more time
to demonstrate this so the tool
is a bookmark so when you bookmark it
it's at the top here bookmarks or
wherever you hold it
and it puts a little icon on the bottom
bottom side of your screen you click on
it
and you're able to see all right check
my heading structure and this is a good
example of a website so there's not
going to find a lot of ton of errors
but if it comes up on the right you can
see that they have a good heading
structure i can
actually demonstrate what it looks like
if you have a bad heading structure here
in a second
um contrasts this is always
a kind of a doozy for a lot of websites
but knowing that there's some warnings
on contrast like this one
up here the contrast insufficient for
its uh for this size
yeah you just kind of have to it helps
you diagnose like okay well how can i
correct
this problem text links
labels uh see there's not a lot of
errors when i click on labels and
nothing comes up that means they don't
really have everything labeled
image alt text um these
these are put as decorative i kind of
that's from the programmer standpoint i
kind of wish that these images which
these images had
alt text and them um but you can mark
them
with a certain marking that says hey
this is decorative element
but sometimes designers do that to kind
of get around things but i kind of wish
these had hot text on them
landmarks uh so this indicates landmarks
saying there's buttons up these are
buttons
um what they didn't do what the the bad
thing that the unilever didn't do was
actually say hey this is navigation
and hey this is main content um that's
something where they sort of are missing
the mark essentially with landmarks
um and i'll demonstrate the other here
code sniffer co-sniffer so this is where
when we talked earlier in the
presentation we talked about section 508
wcag2 single a double a and
aaa now you can actually switch between
the standards on this kind of code
checker
and like hey section 508 they only have
one error and you can view the report
and what this will do is well you can't
even see it it's off screen but
it's kind of pointing to this area like
hey this is where the problem is it
even spits out code saying hey check out
this code
and that's what the error is so you can
you can switch now to
double a what we were talking about for
most there's 150 warnings and eight
errors
you don't need to freak out about the
warnings the errors you definitely need
to check out um
and you can i have them organized by and
when i view the report you can organize
them by you can see all of them and view
the report or you can just see your
errors
and view the report and this is just
kind of a like i said this is a quick
check this is a good example this is
element
insufficient contrast what it's doing is
comparing the background to this white
text
and you kind of see there's white image
it doesn't really provide as much
contrast it says it's 1.4 to
1.43 you know it's a small minimum
contrast
right here so it's saying we recommend
4.5 to 1 it actually has a one-to-one
so and even spits out a little code so
that's kind of
a workflow these are not a catch-all
software i recommend using
a couple different checkers as you're
working along to kind of see if either
one can miss each other because they do
not have
they do not catch everything
all right in summary make accessibility
part of your entire
uh design process accessibility makes
better
site structure and easier for everyone
to use
better for search engines seo and opens
up to and opens up the site to more
users
for accessibility kind of ending notes
it's okay to start small
accessibility doesn't happen like over
in one day or overnight
um i think this was said earlier user
creativity things makes accessible
understand the guidelines but come up
with your own ideas and to help solve
some of these accessible problems and
kind of share with the remaining
with the design community developer
community
applying some concepts and apply some of
these concepts you learn kind of in your
next design project and you know
if you do that it kind of starts setting
the conversation forward and kind of
helps everybody
um these are just some my last page is
here just uh wordpress
plugins for accessibility wp
accessibility probably very popular
plugin i've used it a couple times
if you don't know how to program skip
links this will help you with skip links
this also has a toggle for high contrast
and large prints
and also it helps you enforce alt text
alt tag
attributes on your images um
it has some accessibility stuff with
divi and uh genesis framework i didn't
talk about this but genesis framework
was one of the first frameworks i use
when it comes to accessibility they they
really push they
for a long time they've been pushing the
envelope for accessibility and i
continue to support their programs and
their software
as far as kind of how their themes work
and how their framework is
on the basis of accessibility
thank you thanks so much dylan
uh we do have a couple questions from
the audience yeah we have a few minutes
here to
get those wrapped up uh so someone asked
is no black on white text a wk
requirement um they said you were the
second speaker that brought this up
and they were asking where they could
find more about those requirements
yeah it's not a no it's not a it's not a
requirement it's asking
no it's not a requirement to have it
that way that's
it's just a recommendation it's kind of
from research like it's okay to have
black and white
right as contrast ratio because that's
the highest contrast ratio
but it's there's kind of a happy medium
there
right you don't you don't want to overdo
it because there's actually
certain types of users that are actually
turned off by that high contrast
and it and it it doesn't work for them
either so kind of
there's there's kind of been some
research on that as far as the
guidelines they don't have specific
exactly what color they just want you to
stay in the 4.5 to 1 as far as the
weak double a so kind of if you stick
around that 4.5 5
6 and up you're good to go you don't
have to make it
extreme the other way and plus black and
white is kind of a harsher you've seen
an all black and white website
it's pretty hard to look at so then
going off of that
would you suggest that sites provide
contrast
options for their users or should you
rely
on their operating system preferences
and settings
oh that's a good question yeah a little
bit of both um
i've had where like one of the plugins i
talked about wp
accessibility they have like a toggling
tool for high contrast so it can
actually switch your site into the high
contrast
uh thing but of course people who have
disability or use software to kind of
interact with the web they also have
tools or preferences that are set for
them
what you don't want is to try to
override those preferences for the users
i think you don't want to make it more
difficult because you're not you know
yeah a good a good practice is try to
make it the same for everybody
not trying to figure out what you think
this one use or how they want to use it
um i don't that kind of answers the
question but that yeah just speak
just be careful on on some of those
aspects
so then for testing for operating
systems
would you recommend is there a
particular tool that you could
simulate having those settings or do you
recommend just testing multiple devices
with accessibility settings turned on
yeah yeah well testing testing testing
right yeah yeah
is as much as you have acts you have
access to um
and also get out there in the community
you know i've talked to
several people on what they use like hey
what do you use and that's kind of the
best gauge i can get
and you can look online the best you can
but honestly finding users who
have disabilities or who use the
software and they have recommendations
of the best
things to use and that's kind of uh kind
of where i start
and then you kind of have to test on
multiple platforms i'm used to testing
as a developer or designer you're used
to testing on so many different things
anyway whether
you know it's different web browser
software or what
but if you can if you can find different
ways of tests
uh if you can find multiple ways to test
it just helps you as a designer in
general
great that's helpful um our last
question here is about a specific
graphic that you showed where you had
the various disabilities in different
size circles
and they were asking what the different
sizes were
reflecting if that was the amount of
people with a different disability
um and do you have percentages that you
could share
oh no i did i did run across that in
research about
that there are percentages i i did i was
going to originally put that graphic in
but i didn't know i was trying not to
make it so confusing about
what weight it is yeah there are certain
types of users that are more
um and mostly probably motor skills i
think people who
usually use the keyboard is probably the
most um and then visually it's kind of
the next group but that visual group is
a lot
broader i guess you could say i don't
know how to explain it like there's
different types of visual
disabilities um so i didn't i should
have made maybe that's a good
good suggestion i should make that image
a little more kind of like hey this is
the weight
of uh this group but no
in that image there was not a there was
not a weight varying
okay i think that's all we have thank
you so much
for presenting today dylan